refactor: Refresh manage maintenance task guide (#155)
canonical/landscape-documentation: docs/how-to-guides/backup-and-maintenance/manage-maintenance-cron-jobs.md

(how-to-manage-maintenance-cron-jobs)=
# How to manage maintenance cron jobs

Landscape Server installs and manages a set of maintenance cron jobs that are enabled by default. These jobs are essential for normal operation and are defined in the `/etc/cron.d/landscape-server` file.

## Default maintenance cron jobs

The following are automatically scheduled cron jobs.

> - `maintenance.sh`

Author: I like that suggestion. I'll add a description at the beginning so that valuable information isn't lost. My main reason for removing was to just make the page look cleaner.  :+1:

>   - Performs daily maintenance of monitoring graphs tables and deleting older data. It also runs schema maintenance tasks. Failure to run this task for multiple days prevents monitoring data from being stored and will lead to gaps in graphs.

Author: I believe "older data" means older than 28 days. Found here in landscape-server `canonical/landscape/model/resource/subscriber.py`. I'll update the doc to reflect this. :+1:

- `update_security_db.sh`

>   - Loads the latest Ubuntu Security Notices (USNs) and processes them. Required for identifying which updates are classified as security updates.

Author: Yes that's true. The code does explicitly load in USNs and CVEs. I was thinking of USNs as an umbrella term since it's suggested that USNs are composed of CVEs in this doc: https://documentation.ubuntu.com/pro-client/en/latest/explanations/cves_and_usns_explained/

But, now that I think about it. It's probably worth also mentioning that CVEs are also loaded in since that is what the script is doing. I'll add CVEs.

- `update_alerts.sh`
  - Updates alert rules that require periodic checks (e.g. detecting offline computers and expired accounts).
- `process_alerts.sh`
  - Process alert rules for all accounts and sends pending alert notifications emails.
- `landscape_profiles.sh`
  - Applies {ref}`profiles <reference-terms-profiles>` to computers.
- `hash_id_databases.sh`
  - Regenerates packages hash-ids mapping files. Enables newly registered computers to report installed and available packages quickly. Out-of-date hash-id mapping files causes computers to report packages at a slower rate (approximately 500 packages at a time).
- `meta_releases.sh`
  - Checks for new releases of Ubuntu.

> 

Reviewer: So regarding the removed cron jobs (`sync_lds_releases.sh` and `report_anonymous_metrics.sh`) - we shouldn't completely remove them from the docs because those cron jobs still exist in older versions of Landscape. I believe it's 25.10 (self-hosted) where these were removed? Although I'm not sure

... but assuming they were removed in 25.10, I'd suggest writing this something like:

- (Landscape 25.04 and earlier) `report_anonymous_metrics.sh`
   - [description This job was removed in Landscape 25.10.

## Optional Cleaning of Activity History

> Landscape includes default maintenance tasks to limit monitoring graphs history. Additional maintenance jobs can be scheduled to limit old activities and events to a defined retention period. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Landscape includes some basic cleanup tasks in the `maintenance.sh` job. You may want to create additional jobs to limit old activities and events to a defined retention period. 
```
Or something like that, feel free to reword it

- `process_alerts.sh`
  - Process alert rules for all accounts and sends pending alert notifications emails.
- `landscape_profiles.sh`
  - Applies {ref}`profiles <reference-terms-profiles>` to client instances.
- `hash_id_databases.sh`
  - Regenerates packages hash-ids mapping files. Enables newly registered computers to report installed and available packages quickly. Out-of-date hash-id mapping files causes computers to report packages at a slower rate (approximately 500 packages at a time).
- `meta_releases.sh`
  - Checks for new releases of Ubuntu.
- `sync_lds_releases.sh` (Landscape 25.08 and earlier)
  - Checks for available Landscape Server upgrades. This job was removed in Landscape 25.10.
- `report_anonymous_metrics.sh` (Landscape 25.04 and earlier)
  - Reports anonymous metrics (e.g., the installed Landscape Server version). This job was removed in Landscape 25.08.

## Optional Cleaning of Activity History

Landscape includes some basic cleanup tasks in the `maintenance.sh` job. You may want to create additional jobs to limit old activities and events to a defined retention period. 

### Setting Up Optional Cleanup Tasks

> Create a `/etc/cron.d/ls_maintenance` file and add the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set up optional cleanup tasks

Create a `/etc/cron.d/ls_maintenance` file and add the following:
```
